#OGRIT

1) Install IGP2, as specified on https://github.com/uoe-agents/IGP2.


One of the requirements of IGP2 is `carla`. This, though, is not a requirement for OGRIT. To run on machines that cannot 
install `carla`, do the following:
- Remove `carla==0.9.12` from `IGP2/requirements.txt`
- Remove `from igp2 import` (line 17) from `IGP2/igp2/__init__.py`
- Install IGP2 as per point 1 above

2) Install OGRIT with pip: 
    ```
    cd OGRIT
    pip install -e .
    ```

3) Set up the required folders by running:
   ```
   python ogrit/core/base.py
   ```
   
4) Copy the data from the [inD](https://www.ind-dataset.com/) dataset into `OGRIT/scenarios/data/ind`, and from the [rounD](https://www.round-dataset.com/) dataset into `OGRIT/scenarios/data/round`.


5) Extract the occlusions. You can either:
   1) Download the folders `bendplatz_pickle`, `frankenburg_pickle`, `heckstrasse_pickle` and `neuweiler_pickle` 
   from the from the [inDO and rounDO datasets](link_see also below). Then, unzip them and copy the files inside them in the `OGRIT/occlusions`
   folder.
   2) OR run the following command:
       ```
       python scripts/extract_occlusions.py
       ```
   

6) Preprocess the data and extract the base and indicator features:
   ```
   python scripts/preprocess_data.py
   ```
   
   The task above may take hours to complete. If you have access to a SLURM sever, you could use the `SLURM_extract_occlusions_example.sh` SBATCH script
as an example to extract the base and indicator features. You need to create a script for each of the scenarios. 
More instructions are given in the example file mentioned.


7) Train OGRIT and the baseline (G-GRIT). Then calculate the evaluation metrics on the test set:

    ```
    python scripts/train_occlusion_grit.py
    python scripts/train_generalised_decision_trees.py
    python scripts/evaluate_models_from_features.py --models occlusion_grit,generalised_grit,occlusion_baseline
    python scripts/plot_results.py
    ```

# Occlusion detection

### a) Visualize the occlusions as they are generated by the occlusion detection algorithm
To visualize the occlusions generated by the occlusion detection algorithm, first complete steps 1-3 above and then, 
from the `OGRIT/` directory, run the following command:
```
python scripts/extract_occlusions_one_episode.py --debug
```

to visualise all the occlusions for each vehicle in the frame. Otherwise,

By default, the  above will give the occlusions for the `bendplatz` scenario, episode `0`. 
You can change it by adding the `--scenario` and `--episode_idx` parameters.
For example, to get the occlusions in `frankenburg` episode `3`, you can run the following command:
```
python scripts/extract_occlusions_one_episode.py --scenario frankenburg --episode_idx 3 --debug
```

### b) Visualize the occlusions contained in the [inDO and rounDO datasets](link_see also below)
To visualise the occlusions for one of the episodes contained in the [inDO and rounDO datasets](link_see also below),
follow steps 1-4 of the `OGRIT` section above. 

Then, if the episode data is in the JSON format run the following command:

- ```
   python visualise_json_occlusions.py --scenario scenario_name --episode_idx episode_idx --frame_id frame_id
   ```
  Note: you need to change the `scenario_name` and `episode_idx` above according to the episode you want to see the 
occlusions for. the `--frame_id` argument can be left out if you want to start from frame `0`.

Otherwise, run the following if the episode data is in pickle format:
- ```
   python visualise_pickle_occlusions.py --scenario scenario_name --episode_idx episode_idx --frame_id frame_id
   ```
  Note: you need to change the `scenario_name` and `episode_idx` above according to the episode you want to see the 
occlusions for. the `--frame_id` argument can be left out if you want to start from frame `0`.


We used IGP2 from commit `f9a876a8333e4afa1d618e74fe4fdb7cbbdf3730` in the `dev` branch.